Initial draft of the Getting Started on DigitalOcean with Pulumi blog post (#1307)
pulumi/docs: content/blog/getting-started-on-digitalocean-with-pulumi/index.md

---
title: "Getting Started on DigitalOcean with Pulumi"
authors: ["paul-stack"]
tags: ["DigitalOcean", "TypeScript"]

> date: "2019-07-08"

Reviewer: Update to today's date
```suggestion
date: "2019-07-18"
```

> meta_image: "RELATIVE_TO_PAGE/Feature.png"

Reviewer: The file you uploaded was a jpg.
```suggestion
meta_image: "RELATIVE_TO_PAGE/Feature.jpg"
```

---

Pulumi recently added support for managing [DigitalOcean](https://www.digitalocean.com/) resources. This article will 
show you how to deploy some load balanced Droplets on DigitalOcean using Pulumi.

To get started, let's create a new Pulumi program written in TypeScript:

```bash

>  $ mkdir infra && cd infra && pulumi new typescript

Reviewer: We've been showing this as 2 steps. It separates the standard Unix stuff from the part that is Pulumi-specific.
```suggestion
 $ mkdir infra && cd infra
 $ pulumi new typescript
```

---
title: "Getting Started on DigitalOcean with Pulumi"
authors: ["paul-stack"]
tags: ["DigitalOcean", "Typescript"]
date: "2019-07-08"

meta_image: "RELATIVE_TO_PAGE/app-insights.png"
---

> Recently, support for the management of [DigitalOcean](https://www.digitalocean.com/) resources has been added to Pulumi. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Pulumi recently added support for managing [DigitalOcean](https://www.digitalocean.com/) resources. 
```

> In this article, we are going to show you how Pulumi can help to deploy some load balanced Droplets on DigitalOcean.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This article will show you how to deploy some load balanced Droplets on DigitalOcean using Pulumi.
```

To get started, let's create a new Pulumi program written in TypeScript:

```bash
 $ mkdir infra && cd infra && pulumi new typescript
```

Now we should install the latest Pulumi DigitalOcean provider:

```bash
 $ npm install @pulumi/digitalocean
```

At the top of our application, we can add the resource imports:

```typescript
import * as pulumi from "@pulumi/pulumi";
import * as digitalocean from "@pulumi/digitalocean";
```

We can now start to build the infrastructure. To get started, we will declare two constants:

```typescript
const dropletCount = 3;
const region = digitalocean.Regions.NYC3;
```

> We can now create our web servers. As our Pulumi application is written in TypeScript, we are going to take advantage of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now, let's create our web servers. Since our Pulumi application is written in TypeScript, we can use a loop, as follows:
```

> being able to use a loop, as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

```typescript
const dropletTypeTag = new digitalocean.Tag("demo-app");
const userData = 
  `#!/bin/bash
  sudo apt-get update
  sudo apt-get install -y nginx`;

const droplets = [];
for (let i = 0; i < dropletCount; i ++) {
    let nameTag = new digitalocean.Tag(`web-${i}`);

    droplets.push(new digitalocean.Droplet(`web-${i}`, {
        image: "ubuntu-18-04-x64",
        region: region,
        privateNetworking: true,
        size: digitalocean.DropletSlugs.Droplet512mb,
        tags: [nameTag.id, dropletTypeTag.id],
        userData: userData,
    }));
}
```

Let's take a closer look at what we've programmed. First, we declared a `dropletTypeTag`; we'll come back to what this 

> tag signifies later, below. Next, we have a `userData` constant that we can pass to all the instances, so that we can 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
tag signifies later. Next, we have a `userData` constant that we can pass to all the instances, so that we can 
```

see they are running a web server. Then, we are declaring a `nameTag` constant. This allows us to use the interpolation 

> of the loop to ensure that each of our Droplets is tagged with the appropriate name. We can also see that the region 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
in the loop to ensure that each of our Droplets is tagged with the appropriate name. We can also see that the region 
```

constant is being used in the Droplet declaration and we are adding the meta-information back to the Droplets array for 
later use.

Our next piece of infrastructure is our load balancer. We are going to create a public load balancer that will accept 
connections on port 80 and forward those connections to the Droplets that are attached on port 80. The infrastructure 

> block looks as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
block looks like this:
```

```typescript
const lb = new digitalocean.LoadBalancer("public", {
    dropletTag: dropletTypeTag.name,
    forwardingRules: [{
        entryPort: 80,
        entryProtocol: digitalocean.Protocols.HTTP,
        targetPort: 80,
        targetProtocol: digitalocean.Protocols.HTTP,
    }],
    healthcheck: {
        port: 80,
        protocol: digitalocean.Protocols.TCP,
    },
    region: region,
});

export const endpoint = lb.ip;
```

> The configuration is made up of an array of forwarding rules, in our case, we are forwarding from the load balancer to 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The configuration is made up of an array of forwarding rules. Here, we forward traffic from the load balancer to 
```

> the Droplets as expressed. Then we have a health check that makes sure that port 80 is actually available and we deploy 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the Droplets. Then we have a health check that makes sure that port 80 is actually available and we deploy 
```

the load balancer into the region that we declared as a constant earlier. The interesting thing about load balancers in 

> DigitalOcean is that you can attach instances by Droplet tag. You don't need to know the Droplet IDs. We can suggest that

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
DigitalOcean is that you can attach instances by Droplet tag without knowing the Droplet IDs. Here, we configure
```

> all Droplets that have the tag `demo-app`, in this region, will be attached to the load balancer. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
all Droplets that have the tag `demo-app`, in this region, to be attached to the load balancer. 
```
